Which Coin is False
----- ---- -- -----

Consider the following problem.  You are given N coins,
exactly 1 of which is false, in that its weight differs
from the others, though you do not know whether the
false coin is lighter or heavier than it should be.  You
are also given 1 additional coin known to be true and a
scale.  You are asked to make a series of weighings of
equal numbers of the coins and at the end tell which
coin is false.  You are asked to minimize the number of
weighings required.

Professor Toowit Toowoo (TT to his friends) has come up
with the following strategy for solving this problem.
There are two cases: first, where you do not know
whether the false coin is lighter than or heavier than a
true coin, and second where you do know.

If you do know whether the false coin is lighter than or
heavier than a true coin, divide the N coins into three
almost equal groups, and weigh two of these that have
equal numbers of coins against each other.  The result
will tell you which of the three groups the false coin
is in.

If on the other hand you do NOT know whether the false
coin is lighter than or heavier than a true coin, divide
the N coins into three groups two of which have the same
number J of coins, and weigh these two groups against
each other.  If the scale balances, the false coin is in
the group not weighed.

Otherwise, move some number K of the coins originally on
the left scale to the right scale, replacing them by
coins not originally weighed, and remove K coins origin-
ally on the right scale, so they are not weighed.  This
second weighing has three outcomes.  If the scales now
balance, the false coin was removed from the right
scale.  If the balance (which side is heavier) changes,
the false coin was moved from the left to the right
scale.  If the balance remains the same, the false coin
was not moved from either scale.  In the first two
cases, you now know whether the false coin is lighter
than or heavier than a true coin.  In the last case,
you still do not know. 

If N is 2, then you can use the 1 known true coin to
solve the problem with a single weighing, as a special
case.

Notice that the number of weighings necessary may depend
upon the actual results of the weighings.  For example,
if N=5, the first step might be to weigh 2 coins against
2 coins, and in the best case the scale balances and the
false coin is known immediately to be the coin you did
not weigh.  But in the worst case, where the scale is
unbalanced, you have to move 1 coin from one scale to
the other, and if the scale remains unbalanced, then
you have only narrowed it down to 2 coins and need a
third weighing.

We want to use TT's strategy to minimize the number of
weighings required if every result turns out to be worst
case.  Thus you are asked to find the minimum worst case
number of weighings needed to solve the problem using
TT's strategy, for a given N, and to find the number J
to be used in the first weighing, and the number K to be
used in the second weighing should the first weighing
not balance.


Input
-----

One line for each test case.  This line just contains N,
with 3 <= N <= 500.  The input ends with an end of file.



Output
------

One line for each case.  This line contains

    W J K

where W is the minimum worst case number of weighings
required using TT's strategy to solve the problem for N
coins, when you do NOT know whether the false coin is
lighter or heavier than a true coin; J is the number of
coins on each scale in the first weighing; and K is the
number of coins moved in the second weighing if the
first weighing has an imbalance.  If several values of J
give the same W, output only the minimum such J.  If for
this J several values of K give the same W, output only
the minimum such K.



Example Input
------- -----

3
4
5
6
7
8
0


Example Output
------- ------

2 1 1
2 1 1
3 1 1
3 1 1
3 2 1
3 2 1




Note: This problem is derived from a problem stated in
`Engaging Students with Theory', by Shilov and Yi,
Communications of the ACM, Sept 2002, Vol. 45 No. 9,
p 98.

File:	   whichcoin.txt
Author:	      Bob Walton <walton@deas.harvard.edu>
Date:	         Sun Oct 19 08:27:39 EDT 2003

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: walton $
    $Date: 2003/10/19 12:35:01 $
    $RCSfile: whichcoin.txt,v $
    $Revision: 1.8 $
