Snow Maze Luck
---- ---- ----
The scouts have a fun winter game called 'Snow Maze'.
They find a bunch of trees and put a target on each.
Next to each targeted tree they place two arrows, one
red and one green, each pointing at another targeted
tree, though this second tree can often not be seen
from the first tree, due to the other non-targeted
trees in the woods. One of the trees is designated
as the start, and another as the goal.

To progress through the maze a scout fires a snowball
at the target on the tree the scout is currently at. If
the scout hits the bulls eye, the scout goes next to the
targeted tree pointed at by the green arrow beside the
tree the scout is at. If the scout misses, the scout
follows the red arrow. In each case, the scout must use
a compass to go in a straight line through the forest
until the scout finds the next targeted tree.

When setting up the contest, the organizers want to
know the minimum distance a scout would travel if
the scout hit H bulls eyes and missed the rest of the
time and was maximally lucky as to which targets the
scout hit.

The first step is computing the distances between each
targeted tree and its red and green arrow next targeted
trees. The second step is computing the minimum
distances for each H. The first step has been done for
you: you must do the second step.

Input
-----
For each test case:
Line 1: The test case name.

Line 2:
The number N of targeted trees. The trees are
numbered 1, 2, ..., N. Tree 1 is always the
start tree, and tree N the goal. 2 <= N <= 50.

Lines 3..N+1:
One line for each tree T in the order from tree
T=1 to tree T=N-1. Tree T’s line contains the
red target next tree number R, the distance from
T to R, the green target next tree number G, and
the distance from T to G, in order. All numbers
are integers. Distances are from 1 through 10.
Note there is no line for T=N.

The input ends with and end of file.

In the data that will be use to test your solution,
the distances between trees are not required to make
geometric sense: e.g., tree 1 can be 1 unit from
tree 2 and tree 2 can be 2 units from tree 3 while tree
1 is 8 units from tree 3. Also, the red and green
arrows of a tree can both point at the same tree.

Output
------
Two lines for each test case. The first line is an
exact copy of the test case name line. The second line
contains N+1 values that correspond to H=0, H=1, ...,
H=N from left to right. For each H, the corresponding
value is the the minimum distance of a path with H bulls
eyes; or is ‘X’ if no such path exists.

Note that a path can loop back on itself. However,
once a path arrives at tree N, the path must stop.


Sample Input
------ -----

-- SAMPLE 1 --
4
2 1 4 8
1 10 3 1
4 10 4 10
-- SAMPLE 2 --
5
3 1 2 1
4 2 1 1
5 4 2 6


Sample Output
------ ------

-- SAMPLE 1 --
X 8 12 X X
-- SAMPLE 2 --
5 9 7 11 9 13
1 1 3 2